---
layout: newstemp
title: igraph 0.5
date: February 14, 2008
tags: release
---

igraph 0.5
=========

February 14, 2008

Release notes
-------------

There are a lot of improvements and corrections in this version. 
We would like to thank all the people who sent comments, bug reports,
patches, or just questions. Without their contribution igraph would be 
definitely much less and worse than it is now. Please keep sending your 
comments and ideas!

Here is a list of major changes, with links to the relevant sections of the 
documentation. See below for the complete list of changes.

<!--more-->

### [C] igraph as a platform

We took some step towards turning igraph to an efficient platform for 
implementing graph algorithms. In particular, we have a set of 
<a href="doc-0.5/html/ch06.html">utility types</a> that support general
scientific computing and working with graphs: vectors, matrices,
stacks, queues, heaps, adjacency lists, etc.

### [C][R][PY] Graph isomorphism

igraph includes the BLISS graph isomorphism algorithm and
implementation now. This and the improved VF2 implementation, which
can now calculate subgraph isomorphism, make igraph support the
bleeding edge of graph isomorphism algorithms. Many thanks to the
authors of BLISS. See the details in the 
<a href="doc-0.5/html/igraph-Isomorphism.html">Reference Manual</a>, in
the <a href="doc-0.5/R/graph.isomorphism.html">R documentation</a> or in the
<a href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.GraphBase-class.html#isomorphic">Python
documentation.</a>

### [C][R][PY] ARPACK for eigenvalue problems

ARPACK is a library for solving large scale sparse eigenvalue
problems. In igraph it is very handy, as many centrality problems are
in fact eigenvalue problems: Kleinberg's hub and authority scores, 
PageRank, the leading eigenvector community detection algorithm are
some examples. Many thanks to the authors of ARPACK and James Fowler,
who suggested to include it in igraph. 

See the details in the
<a href="doc-0.5/html/igraph-Arpack.html">Reference Manual</a>, in the
<a href="doc-0.5/R/arpack.html">R documentation</a> or the 
<a href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#evcent">evcent</a>,
<a href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#pagerank">pagerank</a>,
<a href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#hub_score">hub_score</a>, etc.
functions in the Python documentation.

### [PY] Plotting from Python

Plotting functionality based on the Cairo graphics library (so you need to
install python-cairo if you want to use it). Currently the following
objects can be plotted: graphs, adjacency matrices and dendrograms. Some
crude support for plotting histograms is also implemented. Plots can be
saved in PNG, SVG and PDF formats.

See the details <a href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.drawing-module.html">in the documentation.</a>

### [C][R][PY] Other bits

#### [PY] Shell interface in Python

igraph can now be invoked by calling the script called
`igraph` from the command line. The script launches the
Python interpreter and automatically imports igraph functions into the
main namespace.

#### [C][R][PY] Create famous graphs easily

Some classic graphs can be created by giving their name. This is
very handy if one needs a test graph quickly. See 
<a href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_famous.html">`igraph_famous`</a> (C), 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/graph.famous.html">`graph.famous()`</a> (R) or 
<a href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.GraphBase-class.html#Famous">Famous</a> (Python).
(The idea is based on Combinatorica, a Mathematica extension.)

#### [R] Create graphs using formulas in R

The new 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/graph.formula.html">`graph.formula()`</a>
function provides a simple, concise way to create (small) graphs.
Numerous examples are included in the 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/graph.formula.html">manual page.</a>

#### [C][R][PY] Improvements for weighted graphs

Many functions were updated to handle weighted graphs: fast greedy
community detection (<a href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_community_fastgreedy.html">C</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/fastgreedy.community.html">R</a>, <a
href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#community_fastgreedy">Python</a>), 
Page Rank (<a href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_pagerank.html">C</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/page.rank.html">R</a>, <a
href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.GraphBase-class.html#pagerank">Python</a>), 
modularity calculation (<a href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_modularity.html">C</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/modularity.html">R</a>, <a
href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.clustering.VertexClustering-class.html#modularity">Python</a>),
the Fruchterman-Reingold layout algorithm (<a
href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_layout_fruchterman_reingold.html">C</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/layout.html">R</a>,
<a href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.GraphBase-class.html#layout_fruchterman_reingold">Python</a>). 

#### [C][R][PY] Non-simple graphs

Some functions were added and improved to handle non-simple graphs
(i.e. graphs with loop and/or multiple edges) better: testing that a
graph is simple (<a href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_is_simple.html">C</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/simplify.html">R</a>, <a
href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.GraphBase-class.html#is_simple">Python</a>), testing for loop edges (<a
href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_is_loop.html">C</a>, <a
href="doc-0.5/R/is.multiple.html">R</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.GraphBase-class.html#is_loop">Python</a>), 
testing for multiple edges (<a href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_is_multiple.html">C</a>, <a
href="doc-0.5/R/is.multiple.html">R</a>, <a
href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.GraphBase-class.html#is_multiple">Python</a>) and counting the multiplicity of 
edges (<a href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_count_multiple.html">C</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/is.multiple.html">R</a>, <a href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.GraphBase-class.html#count_multiple">Python</a>).

#### [PY] Pickling support in Python

igraph Graph objects can be serialized (pickled) in Python.

#### [C][R][PY] The graphopt layout algorithm

This is a nice force-based layout algorithm. See the documentation of
details (<a href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_layout_graphopt.html">C</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/layout.html">R</a>, <a href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.GraphBase-class.html#layout_graphopt">Python</a>).

#### [C][R][PY] Support for the DOT file format

igraph can now write graphs to files in the DOT format, used by
GraphViz. See documentation: <a
href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_write_graph_dot.html">C</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/write.graph.html">R</a>, <a
href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.GraphBase-class.html#write_dot">Python</a>.

#### [C][R][PY] Dyad and triad census

Classic social network analysis tools for classifying the dyads (<a
href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_dyad_census.html">C</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/dyad.census.html">R</a>, <a href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#dyad_census">Python</a>) and triads (<a
href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_triad_census.html">C</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/triad.census.html">R</a>, <a href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#triad_census">Python</a>) of a network.

#### [C][R][PY] Biconnected components and articulation points

igraph is now able to calculate biconnected components (<a
href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_biconnected_components.html">C</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/biconnected.components.html">R</a>, <a href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#biconnected_components">Python</a>) 
and articulation points (<a
href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_articulation_points.html">C</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/articulation.points.html">R</a>, <a
href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#biconnected_components">Python</a>).

#### [R] R graphics improvements

There were some minor improvements in R graphics. New graphical
parameters: `frame`, `asp`, `rescale`
and `shape` for different vertex shapes, right now only
circles and squares are supported. 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/plot.graph.html">`plot.igraph`</a> has as
argument (`add`) to plot many graphs on the same plot,
maybe on top of each other. It also supports the `main` and
`sub` arguments now. <a href="doc-0.5/R/plot.common.html">See more here.</a>

#### [R] Always free memory in R after an interrupted calculation

In previous versions of the igraph R package the allocated memory
was not freed if the computation was interrupted. This surely affected 
MS Windows platforms, maybe also OSX. (Not Linux.) igraph 0.5
correctly deallocates all memory on all platforms after an
interruption.

#### [C][R][PY] Estimating closeness and betweenness

These measures can be quickly estimated by specifying an upper bound
for path lengths to be considered. This is useful for larger graphs,
for which the calculation takes a long time. See documentation for
closeness (<a href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_closeness_estimate.html">C</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/closeness.html">R</a>, <a href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.GraphBase-class.html#closeness">Python</a>),
betweenness (<a href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_betweenness_estimate.html">C</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/betweenness.html">R</a>, <a href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.GraphBase-class.html#betweenness">Python</a>) and edge
betweenness (<a href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_edge_betweenness_estimate.html">C</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/betweenness.html">R</a>, <a href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.GraphBase-class.html#edge_betweenness">Python</a>).

#### [C][R][PY] Functions for vertex similarity measures

Two vertex similarity measures based on the number of common neighbors
are introduced, the Jaccard (<a
href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_similarity_jaccard.html">C</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/similarity.html">R</a>, <a
href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.GraphBase-class.html#similarity_jaccard">Python</a>) and the Dice (<a
href="doc-0.5/html/igraph_similarity_dice.html">C</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5/R/similarity.html">R</a>,
<a href="doc-0.5/python/igraph.GraphBase-class.html#similarity_dice">Python</a>) similarities.

#### [R] Proper warnings in R

Up to now igraph warnings were dumped to the console when using the
igraph R package. In many cases this meant that they were effectively
lost. In the new version igraph warnings are converted to proper R
warnings.

#### [C] Handle attributes from C

An experimental C attribute interface was added. This allows using
graph/vertex/edge attributes when programming from C. <a
href="doc-0.5/html/ch09s02.html">See
more here.</a>

New in the R interface
----------------------

- The `rescale`, `asp` and `frame` graphical parameters were added
- Create graphs from a formula notation (`graph.formula`)
- Handle graph attributes properly
- Calculate the actual minimum cut for undirected graphs
- Adjacency lists, `get.adjlist` and `get.adjedgelist` added
- Eigenvector centrality computation is much faster now
- Proper R warnings, instead of writing the warning to the terminal
- R checks graphical parameters now, the unknown ones are not just
  ignored, but an error message is given.
- `plot.igraph` has an `add` argument now to compose plots with multiple
  graphs
- `plot.igraph` supports the `main` and `sub` arguments
- `layout.norm` is public now, it can normalize a layout
- It is possible to supply startup positions to layout generators
- Always free memory when `CTRL+C/ESC is` pressed, in all operating
  systems
- `plot.igraph` can plot square vertices now, see the `shape` parameter
- `graph.adjacency` rewritten when creating weighted graphs
- We use `match.arg` whenever possible. This means that character scalar 
  options can be abbreviated and they are always case insensitive

- VF2 graph isomorphism routines can check subgraph isomorphism now,
  and they are able to return matching(s)
- The BLISS graph isomorphism algorithm is included in igraph now. See
  `canonical.permutation`, `graph.isomorphic.bliss`
- We use ARPACK for eigenvalue/eigenvector calculation. This means that the
  following functions were rewritten: `page.rank`,
  `leading.eigenvector.community.*`, `evcent`. New functions based on
  ARPACK: `hub.score`, `authority.score`, `arpack`.
- Edge weights for Fruchterman-Reingold layout (`layout.fruchterman.reingold`).
- Line graph calculation (`line.graph`)
- Kautz and de Bruijn graph generators (`graph.kautz`, `graph.de.bruijn`)
- Support for writing graphs in DOT format
- Jaccard and Dice similarity coefficients added (`similarity.jaccard`,
  `similarity.dice`)
- Counting the multiplicity of edges (`count.multiple`)
- The graphopt layout algorithm was added, `layout.graphopt`
- Generation of "famous" graphs (`graph.famous`).
- Create graphs from LCF notation (`graph.cf`).
- Dyad census and triad cencus functions (`dyad.census`, `triad.census`)
- Cheking for simple graphs (`is.simple`)
- Create full citation networks (`graph.full.citation`)
- Create a histogram of path lengths (`path.length.hist`)
- Forest fire model added (`forest.fire.game`)
- DIMACS reader can handle different file types now
- Biconnected components and articulation points (`biconnected.components`,
  `articulation.points`)
- Kleinberg's hub and authority scores (`hub.score`, `authority.score`)
- `as.undirected` handles attributes now
- Geometric random graph generator (`grg.game`) can return the
  coordinates of the vertices
- Function added to convert leading eigenvector community structure result to
  a membership vector (`community.le.to.membership`)
- Weighted fast greedy community detection
- Weighted page rank calculation
- Functions for estimating closeness, betweenness, edge betweenness by 
  introducing a cutoff for path lengths (`closeness.estimate`,
  `betweenness.estimate`, `edge.betweenness.estimate`)
- Weighted modularity calculation
- Function for permuting vertices (`permute.vertices`)
- Betweenness and closeness calculations are speeded up
- `read.graph` can handle all possible line terminators now (\r, \n, \r\n, \n\r)
- Error handling was rewritten for walktrap community detection,
  the calculation can be interrupted now
- The maxflow/mincut functions allow to supply NULL pointer for edge
  capacities, implying unit capacities for all edges

Bugs corrected in the R interface
---------------------------------

- Fixed a bug in `cohesive.blocks`, cohesive blocks were sometimes not
  calculated correctly

New in the Python interface
---------------------------

- Added shell interface: igraph can now be invoked by calling the script called
  `igraph` from the command line. The script launches the Python interpreter and
  automatically imports igraph functions into the main namespace
- Pickling (serialization) support for `Graph` objects
- Plotting functionality based on the Cairo graphics library (so you need to
  install python-cairo if you want to use it). Currently the following
  objects can be plotted: graphs, adjacency matrices and dendrograms. Some
  crude support for plotting histograms is also implemented. Plots can be
  saved in PNG, SVG and PDF formats.
- Unified `Graph.layout` method for accessing layout algorithms
- Added interfaces to walktrap community detection and the BLISS isomorphism
  algorithm
- Added dyad and triad census functionality and motif counting
- `VertexSeq` and `EdgeSeq` objects can now be restricted to subsets of the
  whole network (e.g., you can select vertices/edges based on attributes,
  degree, centrality and so on)

New in the C library
--------------------

- Many types (stack, matrix, dqueue, etc.) are templates now
  They were also rewritten to provide a better organized interface
- VF2 graph isomorphism routines can check subgraph isomorphism now,
  and they are able to return matching(s)
- The BLISS graph isomorphism algorithm is included in igraph now. See
  `igraph_canonical_permutation`, `igraph_isomorphic_bliss`
- We use ARPACK for eigenvalue/eigenvector calculation. This means that the
  following functions were rewritten: `igraph_pagerank`,
  `igraph_community_leading_eigenvector_*`. New functions based on
  ARPACK: `igraph_eigenvector_centrality`, `igraph_hub_score`,
  `igraph_authority_score`, `igraph_arpack_rssolve`, `igraph_arpack_rnsolve`
- Experimental C attribute interface added. I.e. it is possible to use
  graph/vertex/edge attributes from C code now.

- Edge weights for Fruchterman-Reingold layout.
- Line graph calculation.
- Kautz and de Bruijn graph generators
- Support for writing graphs in DOT format
- Jaccard and Dice similarity coefficients added
- `igraph_count_multiple` added
- `igraph_is_loop` and `igraph_is_multiple` "return" boolean vectors
- The graphopt layout algorithm was added, `igraph_layout_graphopt`
- Generation of "famous" graphs, `igraph_famous`
- Create graphs from LCF notation, `igraph_lcf`, `igraph_lcf_vector`
- `igraph_add_edge` adds a single edge to the graph
- Dyad census and triad cencus functions added
- `igraph_is_simple` added
- progress handlers are allowed to stop calculation
- `igraph_full_citation` to create full citation networks
- `igraph_path_length_hist`, create a histogram of path lengths
- forest fire model added
- DIMACS reader can handle different file types now
- Adjacency list types made public now (`igraph_adjlist_t`,
  `igraph_adjedgelist_t`)
- Biconnected components and articulation points can be computed
- Eigenvector centrality computation
- Kleinberg's hub and authority scores
- igraph_to_undirected handles attributes now
- Geometric random graph generator can return the coordinates of the vertices
- Function added to convert leading eigenvector community structure result to
  a membership vector (`igraph_le_community_to_membership`)
- Weighted fast greedy community detection
- Weighted page rank calculation
- Functions for estimating closeness, betweenness, edge betweenness by 
  introducing a cutoff for path lengths
- Weighted modularity calculation
- `igraph_permute_vertices` added
- Betweenness ans closeness calculations are speeded up
- Startup positions can be supplied to the Kamada-Kawai layout
  algorithms
- `igraph_read_graph_*` functions can handle all possible line
  terminators now (\r, \n, \r\n, \n\r)
- Error handling was rewritten for walktrap community detection,
  the calculation can be interrupted now
- The maxflow/mincut functions allow to supply a null pointer for edge
  capacities, implying unit capacities for all edges

Bugs corrected in the C library
-------------------------------

- Memory leak fixed in adjacency list handling
- Memory leak fixed in maximal independent vertex set calculation
- Fixed a bug when rewiring undirected graphs with igraph_rewire
- Fixed edge betweenness community structure detection for unconnected graphs
- Make igraph compile with Sun Studio
- Betweenness bug fixed, when not computing for all vertices
- memory usage of clique finding reduced
- Corrected bugs for motif counts when not all motifs were counted,
  but a `cut` vector was used
- Bugs fixed in trait games and cited type game
- Accept underscore as letter in GML files
- GML file directedness notation reversed, more logical this way
