---
layout: cnewstemp
title: igraph 0.5.1
date: July 14, 2008
category: c
---

igraph 0.5.1
============

July 14, 2008

igraph 0.5.1 Release Notes
--------------------------

igraph 0.5.1 is a bugfix release, but it actually contains many 
important new things as well. Here is a brief summary about each of 
them. See below for the complete list of changes.

<!--more-->

## The DrL layout generator was added

This is a sophisticated and efficient layout generator written by 
Shawn Martin and colleagues. See more in the 
<a href="doc-0.5.1/html/ch14s01s04.html">reference
manual.</a>

## Uniform sampling of random graphs with given degree sequence

A nice random graph generator that conditions on the degree of vertices 
was added. It can generate undirected connected graphs.
The algorithm and the implementation was done by Fabien Viger and Matthieu Latapy.
See more in the 
<a href="doc-0.5.1/html/igraph_degree_sequence_game.html">
reference manual.</a>

## Weighted shortest path algorithms

Both the Dijkstra and the Belmann-Ford algorithms were added. 
See more in the  
<a href="doc-0.5.1/html/ch10s02.html">reference manual.</a>

## Function to test edge reciprocity

Mutuality can be tested for each edge now. See more in the
<a href="doc-0.5.1/html/igraph_is_mutual.html">reference manual.</a>

New in the C layer
------------------

- A new layout generator called DrL.
- Uniform sampling of random connected undirected graphs with a 
  given degree sequence.
- Some stochastic test results are ignored (for spinglass community
  detection, some Erdos-Renyi generator tests)
- Weighted shortest paths, Dijkstra's algorithm.
- The unweigthed shortest path routine returns `Inf` for unreachable
  vertices.
- New function, `igraph_adjlist` can create igraph graphs from 
  adjacency lists.
- New function, `igraph_weighted_adjacency` can create weighted graphs 
  from weight matrices.
- New function, `igraph_is_mutual` to search for mutual edges.
- Added inverse log-weighted similarity measure (a.k.a. Adamic/Adar
  similarity).
- `igraph_preference_game` and `igraph_asymmetric_preference_game` were 
  rewritten, they are O(|V|+|E|) now, instead of O(|V|^2).
- The Bellman-Ford shortest path algorithm was added.
- Added weighted variant of `igraph_get_shortest_paths`, based on
  Dijkstra's algorithm.
- Several small memory leaks were removed, and a big one from the Spinglass
  community structure detection function

Bugs corrected in the C layer
-----------------------------

- Several bugs were corrected in the (still experimental) C attribute
  handler.
- Pajek reader bug corrected, used to segfault if `*Vertices`
  was missing.
- Directedness is handled correctly when writing GML files.
  (But note that 'correct' conflicts the standard here.)
- Corrected a bug when calculating weighted, directed PageRank on an 
  undirected graph. (Which does not make sense anyway.)
- Some code polish to make igraph compile with GCC 4.3
- Several bugs were fixed in the Reingold-Tilford layout to avoid 
  edge crossings.
- A bug was fixed in the GraphML reader, when the value of a graph
  attribute was not specified.
- Fixed a bug in the graph isomorphism routine for small (3-4 vertices)
  graphs.
- Corrected the random sampling implementation (`igraph_random_sample`),
  now it always generates unique numbers. This affects the 
  G(n,m) Erdos-Renyi generator, it always generates simple graphs now.
- The basic igraph constructor (`igraph_empty_attrs`, all functions 
  are expected to call this internally) now checks whether the number
  of vertices is finite.
- The LGL, NCOL and Pajek graph readers handle errors properly now.
- The non-symmetric ARPACK solver returns results in a consistent form
  now.
- The fast greedy community detection routine now checks that the graph
  is simple.
- The LGL and NCOL parsers were corrected to work with all 
  kinds of end-of-line encodings.
- Hub & authority score calculations initialize ARPACK parameters now.x
- Fixed a bug in the Walktrap community detection routine, when applied 
  to unconnected graphs.
