---
layout: rnewstemp
title: igraph 0.5.1
date: July 14, 2008
category: r
---

igraph 0.5.1
============

July 14, 2008

igraph 0.5.1 Release Notes
--------------------------

igraph 0.5.1 is a bugfix release, but it actually contains many 
important new things as well. Here is a brief summary about each of 
them. See below for the complete list of changes.

<!--more-->

## The DrL layout generator was added

This is a sophisticated and efficient layout generator written by 
Shawn Martin and colleagues. See more in the 
<a href="doc-0.5.1/R/layout.drl.html">manual</a>.

## Uniform sampling of random graphs with given degree sequence

A nice random graph generator that conditions on the degree of vertices 
was added. It can generate undirected connected graphs.
The algorithm and the implementation was done by
Fabien Viger and Matthieu Latapy. See more in the 
<a href="doc-0.5.1/R/degree.sequence.game.html">manual</a>.

## Conversions

igraph includes some functions to convert graphs to and from 
`graphNEL` objects as defined in the graph package
(<a href="doc-0.5.1/R/graphNEL.html">`igraph.to.graphNEL`</a>,
<a href="doc-0.5.1/R/graphNEL.html">`igraph.from.graphNEL`</a>) and 
sparse matrices using the Matrix package 
(<a href="doc-0.5.1/R/conversion.html">`get.adjacency`</a>, 
<a href="doc-0.5.1/R/graph.adjacency.html">`graph.adjacency`</a>,
see the `sparse` argument).

## New graph constructors

A new function was added to create graphs from adjacency lists
(<a href="doc-0.5.1/R/graph.adjlist.html">`graph.adjlist`</a>), 
and <a href="doc-0.5.1/R/graph.data.frame.html">`graph.data.frame`</a>
has an argument call `vertices`, this allows easy
construction of graphs with vertex and edge meta data.

## Weighted shortest path algorithms

Both the Dijkstra and the Belmann-Ford algorithms were added. 
See more in the 
<a href="doc-0.5.1/R/shortest.paths.html">documentation</a>.

## Function to test edge reciprocity

Mutuality can be tested for each edge now. See more in the 
<a href="doc-0.5.1/R/is.mutual.html">documentation</a>.

## Vertex shapes

The R interface now supports different vertex shapes when plotting. 
See more in the <a href="doc-0.5.1/R/igraph.vertex.shapes.html">
R documentation.</a>

New in the R interface
----------------------

- A new layout generator called DrL.
- Uniform sampling of random connected undirected graphs with a 
  given degree sequence.
- Edge labels are plotted at 1/3 of the edge, this is better if 
  the graph has mutual edges.
- Initial and experimental vertex shape support in `plot`.
- New function, `graph.adjlist` creates igraph graphs from
  adjacency lists.
- Conversion to/from graphNEL graphs, from the `graph` R package.
- Fastgreedy community detection can utilize edge weights now, this 
  was missing from the R interface.
- The `arrow.width` graphical parameter was added.
- `graph.data.frame` has a new argument `vertices`.
- `graph.adjacency` and `get.adjacency` support sparse matrices, 
  the `Matrix` package is required to use this functionality.
- `graph.adjacency` adds column/row names as `name` attribute.
- Weighted shortest paths using Dijkstra's or the Belmann-Ford 
  algorithm.
- Shortest path functions return `Inf` for unreachable vertices.
- New function `is.mutual` to find mutual edges in a directed graph.
- Added inverse log-weighted similarity measure (a.k.a. Adamic/Adar
  similarity).
- `preference.game` and `asymmetric.preference.game` were 
  rewritten, they are O(|V|+|E|) now, instead of O(|V|^2).
- Edge weight support in function `get.shortest.paths`, it uses 
  Dijkstra's algorithm.

Bugs corrected in the R interface
---------------------------------
  
- A bug was corrected in `write.pajek.bgraph`.
- Several bugs were corrected in `graph.adjacency`.
- Pajek reader bug corrected, used to segfault if `*Vertices`
  was missing.
- Directedness is handled correctly when writing GML files.
  (But note that 'correct' conflicts the standard here.)
- Corrected a bug when calculating weighted, directed PageRank on an 
  undirected graph. (Which does not make sense anyway.)
- Several bugs were fixed in the Reingold-Tilford layout to avoid 
  edge crossings.
- A bug was fixed in the GraphML reader, when the value of a graph
  attribute was not specified.
- Fixed a bug in the graph isomorphism routine for small (3-4 vertices)
  graphs.
- Corrected the random sampling implementation (`igraph_random_sample`),
  now it always generates unique numbers. This affects the 
  G(n,m) Erdos-Renyi generator, it always generates simple graphs now.
- The basic igraph constructor (`igraph_empty_attrs`, all functions 
  are expected to call this internally) now checks whether the number
  of vertices is finite.
- The LGL, NCOL and Pajek graph readers handle errors properly now.
- The non-symmetric ARPACK solver returns results in a consistent form
  now.
- The fast greedy community detection routine now checks that the graph
  is simple.
- The LGL and NCOL parsers were corrected to work with all 
  kinds of end-of-line encodings.
- Hub & authority score calculations initialize ARPACK parameters now.
- Fixed a bug in the Walktrap community detection routine, when applied 
  to unconnected graphs.
- Several small memory leaks were removed, and a big one from the Spinglass
  community structure detection function
