---
layout: rnewstemp
title: igraph 0.5.2
date: April 10, 2009
category: r
---

igraph 0.5.2
============

April 10, 2009

Release Notes
-------------

This is another bug fix release, with a couple of new features. Here
are the important ones. See at the end for the complete list of changes.

## Bipartite graphs

Bipartite graphs have two kinds of vertices and edges are only allowed
to connect opposite kinds. Think of the Hollywood movie graph with
actors and movies. igraph 0.5.2 now contains some functions to deal
with these kind of networks.

<!--more-->

## The label propagation community finding algorithm

This is a simple and intuitive community finding algorithm, published
by Raghavan et al. in 2007 (see docs for full citation). It works by
assigning labels to the vertices and then updating the labels based on
majority voting among the neighbors.

## 3D version of the DrL layout generator

The DrL layout generator was extended to generate three dimensional
layouts. Albeit slower than the regular 2D version, this is a nice
addition for those who do visualization in 3D.

## R GUI (limited)

A minimal, supported GUI is included now in the R package. It contains
only a small fraction of igraph capabilities, but can be still useful,
e.g. in teaching. You can start it by typing `tkigraph()`,
after loading the igraph package of course.

## Johnson's shortest path algorithm

Johnson's algorithm is a good choice for finding all shortest paths in
a network that has some negative edge weights, but no negative
cycles.

## Average nearest neighbor degree

A new function was added to calculate the average degree of the
neighbors of all or some vertices. It supports the edge weighted
version of the measure as well.

## Curved edges in R plots

Both `plot()` and `tkplot()` supports curved
edges. See `?igraph.plotting` for more details.

## Several bugs and memory leaks corrected

Apart from the bug fixes, some functions were rewritten to speed them up.

New in the R interface
----------------------

- Added progress bar support to `beweenness()` and
  `betweenness.estimate()`, `layout.drl()`
- Speeded up betweenness estimation
- Speeded up `are.connected()`
- Johnson's shortest paths algorithm added
- `shortest.paths()` has now an `algorithm` argument to choose from the
  various implementations manually
- Always quote symbolic vertex names when printing graphs or edges
- Average nearest neighbor degree calculation, `graph.knn()`
- Weighted degree (also called strength) calculation, `graph.strength()`
- Some new functions to support bipartite graphs: `graph.bipartite()`,
  `is.bipartite()`, `get.indicence()`, `graph.incidence()`,
  `bipartite.projection()`, `bipartite.projection.size()`
- Support for plotting curved edges with `plot.igraph()` and `tkplot()`
- Added support for weighted graphs in `alpha.centrality()`
- Added the label propagation community detection algorithm by
  Raghavan et al., `label.propagation.community()`
- `cohesive.blocks()` now has a `cutsetHeuristic` argument to choose
  between two cutset algorithms
- Added a function to "unfold" a tree, `unfold.tree()`
- New `tkplot()` arguments to change the drawing area
- Added a minimal GUI, invoke it with `tkigraph()`
- The DrL layout generator, `layout.drl()` has a three dimensional mode
  now.

Bugs corrected in the R interface
---------------------------------

- Fixed a bug in VF2 graph isomorphism functions
- Fixed a bug when a sparse adjacency matrix was requested in
  `get.adjacency()` and the graph was named
- VL graph generator in `degree.sequence.game()` checks now that
  the sum of the degrees is even
- Many fixes for supporting various compilers, e.g. GCC 4.4 and Sun's
  C compiler
- Fixed memory leaks in `graph.automorphisms()`, Bellman-Ford
  `shortest.paths()`, `independent.vertex.sets()`
- Fix a bug when a graph was imported from LGL and exported to NCOL
  format (\#289596)
- `cohesive.blocks()` creates its temporary file in the session
  temporary directory
- `write.graph()` and `read.graph()` now give error messages when unknown
  arguments are given
- The GraphML reader checks the name of the attributes to avoid adding
  a duplicate `id` attribute
- It is possible to change the `ncv` ARPACK parameter for
  `leading.eigenvector.community()`
- Fixed a bug in `path.length.hist()`, `unconnected` was wrong
  for unconnected and undirected graphs
- Better handling of attribute assingment via iterators, this is now
  also clarified in the manual
- Better error messages for unknown vertex shapes
- Make R package unload cleanly if `unloadNamespace()` is used
- Fixed a bug in plotting square shaped vertices (\#325244)
- Fixed a bug in `graph.adjacency()` when the matrix is a sparse matrix
  of class `dgTMatrix`
