---
layout: cnewstemp
title: igraph 0.5.2
date: April 10, 2009
category: c
---

igraph 0.5.2
============

April 10, 2009

Release Notes
-------------

This is another bug fix release, with a couple of new features. Here
are the important ones. See at the end for the complete list of changes.

## Bipartite graphs

Bipartite graphs have two kinds of vertices and edges are only allowed
to connect opposite kinds. Think of the Hollywood movie graph with
actors and movies. igraph 0.5.2 now contains some functions to deal
with these kind of networks.

<!--more-->

## The label propagation community finding algorithm

This is a simple and intuitive community finding algorithm, published
by Raghavan et al. in 2007 (see docs for full citation). It works by
assigning labels to the vertices and then updating the labels based on
majority voting among the neighbors.

## 3D version of the DrL layout generator

The DrL layout generator was extended to generate three dimensional
layouts. Albeit slower than the regular 2D version, this is a nice
addition for those who do visualization in 3D.

## Johnson's shortest path algorithm

Johnson's algorithm is a good choice for finding all shortest paths in
a network that has some negative edge weights, but no negative
cycles.

## Average nearest neighbor degree

A new function was added to calculate the average degree of the
neighbors of all or some vertices. It supports the edge weighted
version of the measure as well.

## Several bugs and memory leaks corrected

Apart from the bug fixes, some functions were rewritten to speed them up.

New in the C layer
------------------

- Added progress bar support to `igraph_betweenness()` and 
  `igraph_betweenness_estimate()`, `igraph_layout_drl()`
- Speeded up `igraph_betweenness_estimate()`, `igraph_get_eid()`,
  `igraph_are_connected()`, `igraph_get_eids()`
- Added `igraph_get_eid2()`
- Johnson's shortest path algorithm added:
  `igraph_shortest_paths_johnson()`
- Average nearest neighbor degree calculation,
  `igraph_avg_nearest_neighbor_degree()` 
- Weighted degree (also called strength) calculation,
  `igraph_strength()`
- Some functions to support bipartite graphs: `igraph_full_bipartite()`,
  `igraph_bipartite_projection()`, `igraph_create_bipartite()`,
  `igraph_incidence()`, `igraph_get_incidence()`,
  `igraph_bipartite_projection_size()`, `igraph_is_bipartite()`
- Added the label propagation community detection algorithm by
  Raghavan et al., `igraph_community_label_propagation()`
- Added an example that shows how to set the random number generator's
  seed from C (`examples/simple/random_seed.c`)
- Added a function to "unfold" a tree, `igraph_unfold_tree()`
- C attribute handler updates: added functions to query many
  vertices/edges at once
- Three dimensional DrL layout, `igraph_layout_drl_3d()`

Bugs corrected in the C layer
-----------------------------

- Fixed a bug in `igraph_isomorphic_function_vf2()`, affecting all VF2
  graph isomorphism functions
- VL graph generator in `igraph_degree_sequence_game()` checks now that
  the sum of the degrees is even
- Many small corrections to make igraph compile with Microsoft Visual
  Studio 2003, 2005 and 2008
- Many fixes for supporting various compilers, e.g. GCC 4.4 and Sun's
  C compiler
- Fix a bug when a graph was imported from LGL and exported to NCOL
  format (\#289596)
- Fixed memory leaks in `igraph_automorphisms()`,
  `igraph_shortest_paths_bellman_ford()`,
  `igraph_independent_vertex_sets()`
- The GraphML reader checks the name of the attributes to avoid adding
  a duplicate `id` attribute
- It is possible to change the `ncv` ARPACK parameter for
  `igraph_community_leading_eigenvector()`
- Fixed a bug in `igraph_path_length_hist()`, `unconnected` was wrong
  for unconnected and undirected graphs.
