---
layout: pynewstemp
title: igraph 0.6
date: June 11, 2012
category: python
---

igraph 0.6
==========

June 11, 2012

Release Notes
-------------

igraph 0.6 is a major new release of igraph. It contains many new
features and major changes, a lot of bug fixes and improvements. 
As always, we are grateful to the people who sent comments, bug 
reports, questions, and specially to people who contributed code.

See below a list of major changes, with links to the relevant sections
of the documentation. New features are all listed here.

<!--more-->

## The Nexus repository

igraph supports the <a href="http://nexus.igraph.org">Nexus network
    repository</a> from R and from Python. Nexus is an online database
of network data sets. You can search Nexus and download network from
it directly from R and Python. See the
<a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.nexus.NexusConnection-class.html">
documentation</a> for details.

## Support for Python 3.x

The Python interface of igraph now supports Python 3. The current release was
tested with Python 3.2 on Windows, Linux and Mac OS X. Please report any bugs
you encounter when using igraph in Python 3.x through the
usual channels.

## Community detection improvements

Community structure detection via exact modularity optimization. As
modularity optimization in an NP-complete problem, this works only for
small graphs,
<a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#community_optimal_modularity">
Python manual</a>.

The multi-level modularity optimization algorithm by Blondel et
al. was added. See
<a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#community_multilevel">
documentation</a>.

We support now the InfoMAP community finding method, thanks to
Emmanuel Navarro for the code. 
<a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#community_infomap">More</a>.

The edge betweenness community detection method of Newman and Girvan now also
works on weighted graphs. See
the <a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#community_edge_betweenness">
documentation</a>.

We have added some functions to compare various community structures.
See the <a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.clustering-module.html#compare_communities">
documentation</a>.

The cohesive block finding functions were rewritten from scratch in
C. They are much faster now, and they have a nicer API, too. See
the <a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#cohesive_blocks">
documentation</a>.

## Centrality-related functions

Personalized PageRank scores. See
the <a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.GraphBase-class.html#personalized_pagerank">
documentation</a>.

Authority and hub scores, betweenness and closeness
calculations all support edge weights now. See
the <a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.Graph-class.html">
documentation</a>.

## Sugiyama layout

Igraph now implements the Sugiyama layout algorithm for layered
directed acyclic graphs. See
the <a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#layout_sugiyama">
documentation</a>.

## Maximum matchings in bipartite graphs

Igraph now implements the push-relabel algorithm and the Kuhn-Munkres algorithm
(also known as the Hungarian method) to find maximum matchings in unweighted and
weighted bipartite graphs. See
the <a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#maximum_bipartite_matching">
documentation</a>.

## Named graph vertices

The Python interface now treats the `name` attributes in a special way.
The values of the attribute are indexed in the background, allowing the retrieval of
a vertex with a given name in amortized constant time. Furthermore, most of the
graph query methods accept vertex names as well as vertex indices.
See the <a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.VertexSeq-class.html#find">documentation</a>
for more information.

## Pretty-printed graph summaries

The same graph summary format used by R is now also adopted by Python.
Printing a graph with the `print` statement now prints the
summary and the edge list in a concise format:

```python
>>> print karate
IGRAPH UNW- 34 78 -- Zachary's karate club network
+ attr: Author (g), Citation (g), name (g), Faction (v), id (v), name(v),
  weight (e)
+ edges (vertex names):
    Mr Hi -- Actor 2, Actor 3, Actor 4, Actor 5, ...
  Actor 2 -- Mr Hi, Actor 3, Actor 4, ...
...
```

Printing a graph with the `summary()` function (in
the igraph namespace) prints the short summary only, without the edge list:

```python
>>> summary(karate)
IGRAPH UNW- 34 78 -- Zachary's karate club network
+ attr: Author (g), Citation (g), name (g), Faction (v), id (v), name(v),
  weight (e)
```

Printing a graph with `summary(graph, full=True)` prints
the summary, the edge list, the vertex and the edge attributes as well.

## Easier manipulation of graphs

You can treat the graph as a virtual adjacency matrix. See the details in
the <a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.Graph-class.html">documentation</a>.

## Mark groups of vertices in R and Python plots

You can mark vertex groups on graph plots, using shaded
areas. Communities and cohesive blocks are plotted using technique by
default. See the `mark_groups` argument of the
<a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#__plot__">`Graph.__plot__`</a>
function.

## Refactored graph drawers in the Python interface

Graphs in the Python interface are plotted by graph drawer classes now instead
of a monolithic plotting function. This allows one to replace the
<a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.drawing.graph.DefaultGraphDrawer-class.html">default
	graph drawer</a> with custom graph drawers; for instance, a drawer that
sends an igraph graph to an
<a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.drawing.graph.UbiGraphDrawer-class.html">UbiGraph display</a>
or to
<a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.drawing.graph.CytoscapeGraphDrawer-class.html">Cytoscape</a>.
The default graph drawer also allows the partial customization of the plot with
pluggable <a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.drawing.shapes-module.html">vertex shapes</a>
and <a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.drawing.edge-module.html">edge drawers</a>.

## Better handling of attributes in R and Python

In R and Python, many igraph functions keep the vertex, edge and graph attributes
now, when one manipulates the graph. The attributes can also be
combined using a flexible API. See the 
`combine_edges` and `combine_attrs` arguments
of many graph methods in the <a href="doc-0.6/python/igraph.Graph-class.html">
Python documentation</a> for more.

New in the Python interface
---------------------------

## General updates

- Python 3.x is now supported by the Python interface.
- Graphs can now be treated as adjacency matrices by indexing the
  graph object using a pair of vertex ids or vertex names.
- Methods accepting a vertex id or a list of vertex ids should now
  also accept vertex names instead. Names should be given in the
  `name` vertex attribute.
- Igraph now supports loading graphs from the Nexus online data
  repository, see `Nexus.get()`, `Nexus.info()`, `Nexus.list()` and 
  `Nexus.search()`.

## Community detection

- The multi-level modularity optimization community structure detection 
  algorithm by Blondel et al. was added, see `Graph.community_multilevel()`.
- Distance between two community structures: `compare_communities()`.
- Community structure via exact modularity optimization,
  `Graph.community_optimal_modularity()`.
- Added the InfoMAP community finding method, thanks to Emmanuel
  Navarro for the code. See `Graph.community_infomap()`.
- Edge betweenness community detection now supports weighted graphs;
  see `Graph.community_edge_betweenness()`.

## Shortest paths

- Eccentricity (`Graph.eccentricity()`), and radius (`Graph.radius()`)
  calculations.
- Shortest path calculations with `Graph.get_shortest_paths()` can now 
  return the vertex or edge ids along the shortest paths.
- `Graph.get_all_shortest_paths()` now supports edge weights.
- Neighborhood of a vertex can now be retrieved with `Graph.neighborhood()`

## Centrality

- Personalized Page-Rank scores, see `Graph.pagerank()`.
- Authority (`Graph.authority_score()`) and hub (`Graph.hub_score()`)
  scores support edge weights now.
- Support edge weights in betweenness and closeness calculations.
- Eigenvector centrality calculation, `Graph.evcent()` now works for 
  directed graphs.
- Betweenness calculation can now use arbitrarily large integers,
  this is required for some lattice-like graphs to avoid overflow.

## Input/output and file formats

- Support the DL file format in `Graph.read()`. See 
  http://www.analytictech.com/networks/dataentry.htm.
- Support writing the LEDA file format in `Graph.write()`.

## Plotting and layouts

- Star layout: `Graph.layout_star()`.
- Layout based on multidimensional scaling, `Graph.layout_mds()`
- Grid layouts: `Graph.layout_grid()`, `Graph.layout_grid_3d()`
- Sugiyama layout algorithm for layered directed acyclic graphs:
  `Graph.layout_sugiyama()`.
- It is possible to mark vertex groups on plots using the `mark_groups`
  keyword argument of `Graph.__plot__()`. Communities and cohesive blocks are
  plotted using this by default. Note that the same keyword argument is
  also accepted by `plot()` of course.
- Redesigned graph plotting framework: graph drawers are now derived
  from `AbstractGraphDrawer`. The framework allows the implementation of
  custom graph drawers such as `UbiGraphDrawer` or `CytoscapeDrawer`.
  Edges are drawn by edge drawer classes (derived from `AbstractEdgeDrawer`),
  custom vertex shapes are now possible by `ShapeDrawers`.
- Multiple edges are now drawn curved to make them visible. See
  the `autocurve` and `edge_curved` keyword arguments of
  `Graph.__plot__()`. Note that these are also accepted by `plot()` of
  course.
- Better label placement algorithm supports multi-line labels and the
  specification of the distance and angle of the label relative to the
  center of the node.
- Added `rescale()` function to rescale a list of numeric values to a
  different range, suitable for plotting.

## Graph generators

- New graph generators: `Graph.Static_Fitness()`, `Graph.Static_Power_Law()`.
- `Graph.Barabasi()` was rewritten and it supports three algorithms now,
  the default algorithm does not generate multiple or loop edges.
  The graph generation process can now start from a supplied graph.
- The Watts-Strogatz graph generator, `Graph.Watts_Strogatz()` can 
  now create graphs without loop edges.

## Others

- Vertex and edge attributes are handled much better now. They 
  are kept whenever possible, and can be combined via the
  `combine_edges` and `combine_attrs` keyword arguments of
  `Graph.simplify()`, `Graph.contract_vertices()` and
  `Graph.to_undirected()`.
- Graphs are now printed in a more concise and informative way.
  `print()` prints a short information header and the edge list,
  while `summary()` prints the heder only. `summary()` also
  understands keyword arguments that control which parts of the
  output should be added; see the `GraphSummary` class.
- Motif search can now call a callback function for every motif found,
  see `Graph.motifs_randesu()`
- Transitivity calculations now support weights,
  see `Graph.transitivity_local_undirected()`
- Added cohesive block calculation, see `Graph.cohesive_blocks()`
- Added feedback arc sets, see `Graph.feedback_arc_set()`
- It is now possible to ask for the Jaccard or Dice similarities of
  pairs of vertices only, see `Graph.similarity_jaccard_pairs()`
  and similar functions.
- Support vertex and edge coloring in the VF2 (sub)graph isomorphism 
  functions (`Graph.isomorphic_vf2()`, `Graph.count_isomorphisms.vf2()`,
  `Graph.get_isomorphisms_vf2()`, `Graph.subisomorphic_vf2()`, 
  `Graph.count_subisomorphisms_vf2()`, `Graph.get_subisomorphisms_vf2()`).
- Assortativity coefficient, `Graph.assortativity()`,
  `Graph.assortativity_nominal()` and `Graph.assortativity_degree()`.
- Function to calculate a non-induced subraph: `Graph.subgraph_edges()`.
- `Graph.has_multiple()` to decide whether a graph has multiple edges.
- Added a function to calculate a diversity score for the vertices,
  `Graph.diversity()`.
- Graph Laplacian calculation (`Graph.laplacian()`) supports edge 
  weights now.
- `Graph.bipartite_projection()` calculates multiplicity of edges.
- Vertex contraction, `Graph.contract_vertices()`.

We also fixed numerous bugs, too many to include them here, sorry.
You may look at our bug tracker at https://bugs.launchpad.net/igraph
to check whether a bug was fixed or not. Thanks for all the people
reporting bugs. Special thanks to Minh Van Nguyen for a lot of bug
reports, documentation fixes and contributed code!
