---
layout: cnewstemp
title: igraph 0.6.5
date: February 24, 2013
category: c
---

igraph 0.6.5
============

February 24, 2013

The version number is not a mistake, we jump to 0.6.5 from 0.6, 
for technical reasons.

Release Notes
-------------

igraph 0.6.5 is a minor release that contains only few big changes,
and fixes a number of very annoying bugs. 

See at the end for the complete list of changes. First let's see
the most important new features and changes. 

<!--more-->

### Pajek reader supports bipartite graphs

See more here:
<a href="doc-0.6.5/html/ch19s05.html#igraph_read_graph_pajek">
`igraph_read_graph_pajek`</a>.

### Graphical degree sequences

We added some new functions if a sequence of integers is graphial, i.e. it 
can be the degree sequence of a simple graph. See more in
the 
<a href="doc-0.6.5/html/ch13s05.html#igraph_is_graphical_degree_sequence">
manual</a>.

### k-regular random graphs

It is possible now to generate regular random graphs, faster than 
the general degree sequence based generator. See more in
the <a href="doc-0.6.5/html/ch09s02.html#igraph_k_regular_game">
reference manual</a>.

### Fitting power law distributions

This release includes the plfit library to maximum likelihood fit 
power laws to discrete or contiouous data. See more in
the <a href="doc-0.6.5/html/ch29s05.html#igraph_power_law_fit">
reference manual</a>.

C library news and changes
--------------------------

- Added bipartite support to the Pajek reader and writer, closes bug
  \#1042298.
- `igraph_layout_mds()` uses LAPACK instead of ARPACK.
- `igraph_degree_sequence_game` has a new method:
  `IGRAPH_DEGSEQ_SIMPLE_NO_MULTIPLE`.
- Added the `igraph_is_degree_sequence()` and
  `igraph_is_graphical_degree_sequence()` functions.
- `igraph_rewire()` has a new method: `IGRAPH_REWIRING_SIMPLE_LOOPS`, 
  that can create loops.
- Walktrap community detection now handles isolates.
- Added `igraph_k_regular_game()`.
- Added `igraph_power_law_fit`.

- Fixed a bug in `igraph_barabasi_game` when `outseq` was an empty vector.
- Fixed overflow issues in centralization calculations.
- Fixed an invalid return value of `igraph_vector_ptr_pop_back`.
- Fixed a `igraph_all_minimal_st_separators()` bug, some vertex sets
  were incorrectly reported as separators. Bug \#1033045.
- Pajek exporter now always quotes strings, thanks to Elena Tea Russo.
- Fixed a bug with handling small edge weights in
  `igraph_shortest_paths_dijkstra()`, thanks to Martin J Reed.
- Fixed a bug in the `NCV` setting for ARPACK functions. It cannot be
  bigger than the matrix size.
- `igraph_layout_merge_dla` uses better default parameter values now.
- Fixed a bug in `igraph_layout_mds()` that resulted vertices on top of
  each other.
- Attribute handler table is not thread-local any more.
- Motif finding functions return `IGRAPH_NAN` for isomorphism classes
  that are not motifs (i.e. not connected). Fixes bug \#1050859.
- Fixed a bug when calculating the largest cliques of a directed
  graph. Bug \#1073800.
- Fix a bug in `degree_sequence_game()`, in_seq can be an empty vector as
  well instead of NULL, for an undirected graph. 
- Fixed a bug in the maximal clique search, closes \#1074402.
- Warn for negative weights when calculating PageRank.
- Fixed a bug in `igraph_eccentricity()` (and also `igraph_radius()`),
  the results were often simply wrong.
- Fixed a bug in `igraph_get_all_shortest_paths_dijkstra()` when edges
  had zero weight.
- Fixed some potential crashes in the DrL layout generator.
- Fixed a bug in the Reingold-Tilford layout when the graph is
  directed and `mode != ALL`.
- Fixed a bug in `igraph_has_multiple()` that resulted in false negatives
  for some undirected graphs.
- Fixed a crash in weighted betweenness calculation.
