---
layout: pynewstemp
title: igraph 0.6.5
date: February 24, 2013
category: python
---

igraph 0.6.5
============

February 24, 2013

The version number is not a mistake, we jump to 0.6.5 from 0.6, 
for technical reasons.

Release Notes
-------------

igraph 0.6.5 is a minor release that contains only few big changes,
and fixes a number of very annoying bugs. 

See at the end for the complete list of changes. First let's see
the most important new features and changes. 

<!--more-->

## Convert lists of tuples to graphs in Python

The <a href="doc-0.6.5/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#TupleList">`Graph.TupleList()`</a>
static method in Python now allows easy conversion of lists of tuples (such as
database records or contents of CSV files) into graphs with named vertices and
edge attributes.


## Pajek reader supports bipartite graphs

See more in the 
<a href="doc-0.6.5/python/igraph.Graph-class.html#Read">
documentation</a>.

## Graphical degree sequences

We added some new functions if a sequence of integers is graphial, i.e. it 
can be the degree sequence of a simple graph. See more in the 
<a href="doc-0.6.5/python/igraph._igraph-module.html#is_graphical_degree_sequence">
documentation</a>.

## k-regular random graphs

It is possible now to generate regular random graphs, faster than 
the general degree sequence based generator. See more in the
<a href="doc-0.6.5/python/igraph.GraphBase-class.html#K_Regular">
documentation</a>.

## Fitting power law distributions

This release includes the plfit library to maximum likelihood fit 
power laws to discrete or contiouous data. See more in the
<a href="doc-0.6.5/python/igraph.statistics-module.html#power_law_fit">
documentation</a>.

Python news and fixes
---------------------

- Added bipartite support to the Pajek reader and writer, closes bug
  \#1042298.
- `Graph.Degree_Sequence()` has a new method now: `no_multiple`.
- Added the `is_degree_sequence()` and `is_graphical_degree_sequence()`
  functions.
- `rewire()` has a new mode: `loops`, that can create loop edges.
- Walktrap community detection now handles isolates.
- Added `Graph.K_Regular()`.
- `power_law_fit()` now uses a C implementation.
- Added support for setting the frame (stroke) width of vertices using the
  `frame_width` attribute or the `vertex_frame_width` keyword argument
  in `plot()`
- Improved Inkscape-friendly SVG output from `Graph.write_svg()`,
  thanks to drlog
- Better handling of named vertices in `Graph.delete_vertices()`
- Added experimental Gephi graph streaming support; see
  `igraph.remote.gephi` and `igraph.drawing.graph.GephiGraphStreamingDrawer`
- Nicer `__repr__` output for `Flow` and `Cut` instances
- Arrows are now placed correctly around diamond-shaped nodes on plots
- Added `Graph.TupleList`, a function that allows one to create graphs with
  edge attributes quickly from a list of tuples.
- `plot()` now also supports `.eps` as an extension, not only `.ps`

- Fixed overflow issues in centralization calculations.
- Fixed a bug that mishandled vertex colors in VF2 isomorphism
  functions. Bug \#1032819.
- Pajek exporter now always quotes strings, thanks to Elena Tea Russo.
- Fixed a bug with handling small edge weights in shortest paths 
  calculation in `Graph.shortest_paths()` (Dijkstra's algorithm.) Thanks to 
  Martin J Reed.
- Fixed a bug in the `NCV` setting for ARPACK functions. It cannot be
  bigger than the matrix size.
- Fixed a bug in `Graph.layout_mds()` that resulted vertices on top of each
  other.
- Motif finding functions return nan for isomorphism classes that are
  not motifs (i.e. not connected). Fixes bug \#1050859. 
- Fixed a bug when calculating the largest cliques of a directed
  graph. Bug \#1073800.
- Warn for negative weights when calculating PageRank.
- Fixed a bug in `Graph.eccentricity()` and `Graph.radius()`,
  the results were often simply wrong.
- Fixed a bug in `Graph.get.all.shortest.paths()` when some edges
  had zero weight.
- Fixed some potential crashes in the DrL layout generator.
- Fixed a bug in the Reingold-Tilford layout when the graph is
  directed and `mode != ALL`.
- Fixed a bug in `Graph.layout_sugiyama()` when the graph had no edges.
- Fixed a bug in `Graph.community_label_propagation()` when initial labels
  contained -1 entries. Issue \#1105460.
- Repaired the `DescartesCoordinateSystem` class (which is not used
  too frequently anyway)
- Fixed a bug that caused segfaults when an igraph `Graph` was used in a
  thread forked from the main Python interpreter thread
- Fixed a bug that affected file handles created from Python strings in the
  C layer
- Fixed a bug in `has_multiple()` that resulted in false negatives
  for some undirected graphs.
- Fixed a crash in weighted betweenness calculation.
