---
layout: rnewstemp
title: igraph 0.6.5
date: February 24, 2013
category: r
---

igraph 0.6.5
============

February 24, 2013

The version number is not a mistake, we jump to 0.6.5 from 0.6, 
for technical reasons.

Release Notes
-------------

igraph 0.6.5 is a minor release that contains only few big changes,
and fixes a number of very annoying bugs. 

See at the end for the complete list of changes. First let's see
the most important new features and changes. 

<!--more-->

### Vertex shape API in R

It is now possible to create user-defined vertex shapes for drawing 
graphs in R. See <a href="doc-0.6.5/R/igraph.vertex.shapes.html">
    `vertex.shapes()` in the R manual</a>. 

### Convert graphs to data frames in R

Function <a href="doc-0.6.5/R/graph.data.frame.html">`get.data.frame()`</a> 
does the opposite of <a href="doc-0.6.5/R/graph.data.frame.html">
    `graph.data.frame()`</a>, it converts a graph to one or two data frames
that contain vertex and/or edge data.

### Pajek reader supports bipartite graphs

See more in the <a href="doc-0.6.5/R/read.graph.html">manual</a>. 

### Graphical degree sequences

We added some new functions if a sequence of integers is graphial, i.e. it 
can be the degree sequence of a simple graph. See more in
the <a href="doc-0.6.5/R/is.degree.sequence.html">manual</a>.

### k-regular random graphs

It is possible now to generate regular random graphs, faster than 
the general degree sequence based generator. See more in
the <a href="doc-0.6.5/R/k.regular.game.html">manual</a>.

### Fitting power law distributions

This release includes the plfit library to maximum likelihood fit 
power laws to discrete or contiouous data. See more in
the <a href="doc-0.6.5/R/power.law.fit.html">manual</a>.

###  Speedup in R

Many basic graph operations (eg. printing the summary to the screen,
querying attribute values) now avoid copying the graph, so these
operations are now much faster in R.


R: new features and bug fixes
-----------------------------

- Added a vertex shape API for defining new vertex shapes, and also 
  a couple of new vertex shapes.
- Added the `get.data.frame()` function, opposite of `graph.data.frame()`.
- Added bipartite support to the Pajek reader and writer, closes bug
  \#1042298.
- `degree.sequence.game()` has a new method now: `simple_no_multiple`.
- Added the `is.degree.sequence()` and `is.graphical.degree.sequence()`
  functions.
- `rewire()` has a new method: `loops`, that can create loop edges.
- Walktrap community detection now handles isolates.
- `layout.mds()` returns a layout matrix now.
- `layout.mds()` uses LAPACK instead of ARPACK.
- Handle the `~` character in write.graph and read.graph. Bug
  \#1066986.
- Added `k.regular.game()`.
- Use vertex names to plot if no labels are specified in the function
  call or as vetex attributes. Fixes issue \#1085431.
- `power.law.fit()` can now use a C implementation.

- Fixed a bug in `barabasi.game()` when `out.seq` was an empty vector.
- Fixed a bug that made functions with a progress bar fail if called 
  from another package.
- Fixed a bug when creating graphs from a weighted integer adjacency 
  matrix via `graph.adjacency()`. Bug \#1019624.
- Fixed overflow issues in centralization calculations.
- Fixed a `minimal.st.separators()` bug, some vertex sets were incorrectly
  reported as separators. Bug \#1033045.
- Fixed a bug that mishandled vertex colors in VF2 isomorphism
  functions. Bug `\#1032819`.
- Pajek exporter now always quotes strings, thanks to Elena Tea Russo.
- Fixed a bug with handling small edge weights in shortest paths 
  calculation in `shortest.paths()` (Dijkstra's algorithm.) Thanks to 
  Martin J Reed.
- Weighted transitivity uses `V(graph)` as `vids` if it is `NULL`.
- Fixed a bug when `pie` vertices were drawn together with other 
  vertex shapes.
- Speed up printing graphs.
- Speed up attribute queries and other basic operations, by avoiding 
  copying of the graph. Bug \#1043616.
- Fixed a bug in the NCV setting for ARPACK functions. It cannot be
  bigger than the matrix size.
- `layout.merge()`s DLA mode has better defaults now.
- Fixed a bug in `layout.mds()` that resulted vertices on top of each
  other.
- Fixed a bug in `layout.spring()`, it was not working properly.
- Fixed `layout.svd()`, which was completely defunct.
- Fixed a bug in `layout.graphopt()` that caused warnings and on 
  some platforms crashes.
- Fixed `community.to.membership()`. Bug \#1022850.
- Fixed a `graph.incidence()` crash if it was called with a non-matrix
  argument.
- Fixed a `get.shortest.paths()` bug, when output was set to `both`.
- Motif finding functions return `NA` for isomorphism classes that are
  not motifs (i.e. not connected). Fixes bug \#1050859. 
- Fixed `get.adjacency()` when attr is given, and the attribute has some
  complex type. Bug \#1025799. 
- Fixed attribute name in `graph.adjacency()` for dense matrices. Bug
  \#1066952. 
- Fixed erratic behavior of `alpha.centrality()`.
- Fixed igraph indexing, when attr is given. Bug \#1073705.
- Fixed a bug when calculating the largest cliques of a directed
  graph. Bug \#1073800.
- Fixed a bug in the maximal clique search, closes \#1074402.
- Warn for negative weights when calculating PageRank.
- Fixed dense, unweighted graph.adjacency when `diag=FALSE`. Closes
  issue \#1077425. 
- Fixed a bug in `eccentricity()` and `radius()`, the results were often
  simply wrong.
- Fixed a bug in `get.all.shortest.paths()` when some edges had zero weight.
- `graph.data.frame()` is more careful when vertex names are numbers, to
  avoid their scientific notation. Fixes issue \#1082221. 
- Better check for `NA`s in vertex names. Fixes issue \#1087215
- Fixed some potential crashes in the DrL layout generator.
- Fixed a bug in the Reingold-Tilford layout when the graph is
  directed and `mode != ALL`.
- Eliminate gap between vertex and edge when plotting an edge without an arrow.
  Fixes \#1118448.
- Fixed a bug in `has.multiple()` that resulted in false negatives for
  some undirected graphs.
- Fixed a crash in weighted betweenness calculation.
- R plotting: fixed a bug that caused misplaced arrows at rectangle
  vertex shapes.
