---
layout: cnewstemp
title: igraph 0.7.0
date: 2014-02-04
category: c
---

igraph 0.7.0
============

February 4, 2014

Release Notes
-------------

There are a bunch of new features in the library itself, and 
other important changes in the life of the project. Thanks everyone
for sending code and reporting bugs!

### igraph @ github

igraph's development has moved from Launchpad to github. 
This has actually happened several month ago, but never 
announced officially. The place for reporting bugs is 
at https://github.com/igraph/igraph/issues.

### New homepage

The igraph library's homepage is now hosted at http://igraph.org/c,
and it is brand new. We wanted to make it easier to use and
better to look at.

<!--more-->

### Better nightly downloads

You can download nightly builds from igraph at 
http://igraph.org/nightly.

C library news and changes
--------------------------

- Added `igraph_adjlist_print()`, `igraph_adjlist_fprint()`, 
  `igraph_inclist_print()`, `igraph_inclist_fprinf()` functions.
- Make attribute prefixes optional when writing a GraphML file.
- Added function `igraph_modularity_matrix()`.
- Support edge weights in leading eigenvector community detection.
- Added the LAD library for checking (sub)graph isomorphism, version 1.
- Boolean attributes.
- Added `igraph_layout_bipartite()` function, a simple two-column layout
  for bipartite graphs.
- Support incidence matrices in bipartite Pajek files.
- Pajek files in matrix format are now directed by default, unless they
  are bipartite.
- Support weighted (and signed) networks in Pajek when file is in
  matrix format.
- Fixed a bug in `igraph_barabasi_game()`, algorithm psumtree-multiple 
  just froze.
- Added support for Boolean attributes in the GraphML and GML readers
  and writer.
- Change MDS layout coordinates, first dim is according to first
  eigenvalue, etc.
- Update `igraph_union()` and `igraph_union_many()` to return mappings
  for the edges.
- Rewritten `igraph_intersection()`, it can now report edge mappings.
- `igraph_rewire()`: now supports the generation and destruction of
  loops.
- Erdos-Renyi type bipartite random graphs.
- Added predecessors and inbound_edges arguments to
  `igraph_get_shortest_paths[_dijkstra]()`.
- `igraph_rewire()` now shows the fraction of successful swaps in the
  progress message.
- Added `igraph_graphlets()` and related functions.
- Fix modularity values of multilevel community if there are no merges
  at all.
- Fixed a potential crash in `igraph_edge_connectivity()`, because of an
  un-initialized variable.
- Fix a potential segfault in `igraph_atlas()`.
- Avoiding overflow in `igraph_closeness()` and related functions.
- Fixed an invalid memory read (and a potential crash) in the infomap
  community detection.
- Fix a bug in triad census that set the first element of the result
  to NaN.
- Fixed a bug in weighted mudularity calculation, sum of the weights
  was truncated to an integer.
- Fixed a bug in weighted multilevel communtiies, the maximum weight
  was rounded to an integer.
- Reimplement push-relabel maximum flow with gap heuristics.
- Maximum flow functions now return some statistics about the push
  relabel algorithm steps.
- Fix issue #481, thread-local storage is now correctly detected by
  configure on newer clang versions.
- Fixed missing whitespace in Pajek writer when the ID attribute was
  numeric.
- Fixed a bug that caused `igraph_read_graph_gml()` to crash when the ID
  attribute was non-numeric.
- Fix dyad census instability, sometimes incorrect results were
  reported.
- Dyad census detects integer overflow now and gives a warning.
- Added printf functions for `igraph_vector_t()` and `igraph_matrix_t()`.
- Added a function to count the number of adjacent triangles:
  `igraph_adjacenct_triangles()`.
- Added `igraph_eigen_adjacency()` function, eigenproblems on 
  adjacency matrices.
- Added a Gomory-Hu tree implementation: `igraph_gomory_hu_tree()`.
- Added weights support for `igraph_community_optimal_modularity()`,
  closes #511.
- Faster maximal clique finding (#513).
- Added a function to count maximal cliques:
  `igraph_maximal_cliques_count()`.
- Data type `igraph_adjlist_t` uses integer vectors now.
- Generate graphs from a stochastic block model: `igraph_sbm_game()`.
- We use PRPACK to calculate PageRank scores
  see https://github.com/dgleich/prpack
- Add `normalized` argument to closeness functions, fixes issue #3.
- Implement the `start` argument in `igraph_hrg_fit` (#225).
- Fixed a bug in `igraph_density` that resulted in incorrect values for
  undirected graphs with loops.
- Fixed a bug that made Bellman-Ford shortest paths calculations fail.
- Fixed a minimum cut bug for weighted undirected graphs (#564).
- Fixed argument ordering in `igraph_st_mincut` and related functions.
