.\" Hey, Emacs!  This is an -*- nroff -*- source file.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2006-2021  The igraph development team
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\" the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\" Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any later
.\" version.
.\"
.\" This is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License with
.\" your Debian GNU/Linux system, in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL, or with
.\" the dpkg source package as the file COPYING.  If not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH IGRAPH 3 "May 2021" "igraph library"
.SH NAME
igraph \- a library for creating and manipulating graphs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B igraph
is a library for creating and manipulating graphs.
It is intended to be as powerful (i.e. fast) as possible to enable the
analysis of large graphs.
.SH DOCUMENTATION
The full documentation can be downloaded from the homepage of the
library:
.RI < https://igraph.org/c/doc >
.SH BUGS
If you think you have found a bug in igraph, feel free to file a bug report
in the issue tracker at:
.RI < https://github.com/igraph/igraph/issues >

.SH AUTHORS
Gabor Csardi <csardi.gabor@gmail.com>,
.br
Tamas Nepusz <ntamas@gmail.com>,
.br
Vincent Traag <vtraag@gmail.com>,
.br
Szabolcs Horvat <szhorvat@gmail.com>,
.br
Fabio Zanini <fabio.zanini@fastmail.fm>
